---
title: HTML5 Manifests
layout: post
---
It is more than likely that my experimental artifacts during the PGC stage will be classed as a web app. With this in mind, for reference i have outlined below the necessary steps that i will need to take.  
Using the correct doctype is paramount, HTML5 documents use a new simpler doctype.

<pre>&lt;!DOCTYPE html&gt;</pre>

Because HTML5 allows offline storage a cache manifest file needs to be created, This manifest lists any files that need to be stored client side for offline use, for example the index page, the stylesheet, javascript and any images that are crucial for the design. Each item is on a separate line. Adding the date as a comment is recommended because the files are re-downloaded when the manifest is altered.

<pre>CACHE MANIFEST
 # 2011-10-23
 index.html
 style.css
 images/logo.png
 scripts/function.js</pre>

The manifest offers more options than the example above…

<pre>CACHE MANIFEST
 # 2011-10-23
 # files that need to be cached
 CACHE:
 index.html
 style.css
 images/logo.png
 scripts/function.js</pre>

<pre># if the user is offline they are severed offline.html
 FALLBACK:
 offline.html</pre>

<pre># resources that require the user to be online, these are not cached.
 NETWORK:
 login.php</pre>

The manifest must be referenced in the html.

<pre>&lt;html manifest="cache-manifest.manifest"&gt;</pre>

For the offline file support to work first the `.htaccess` file needs to be modified to add the mime-type `text/cache-manifest`.

<pre>AddType text/cache-manifest .manifest</pre>

This is a stripped down referenced guide designed for myself feel free to use it your millage may vary.
